README

                           MacPHREEQC

                  The macOS version of PHREEQC,
        a program developed by the U.S. Geological Survey
    for speciation, batch-reaction, one-dimensional transport,
              and inverse geochemical calculations

This file describes MacPHREEQC, software developed to run the batch
version of PHREEQC on macOS systems using both Apple Silicon and Intel
processors. The current version is a universal macOS application with
the compiled Linux code (source code released by the USGS) as well as
the database files contained within the MacPHREEQC application. The
software is licensed as open-source under the MIT License.

MacPHREEQC is released as a disk image or .dmg file. When this file is
opened in the Finder on your system, a window reveals both the
MacPHREEQC application and a folder named phreeqc. There is also a link
to this README file. MacPHREEQC should be moved to your Applications
Folder; the phreeqc Folder should be placed into your <user>/Documents
Folder. The phreeqc folder contains a doc Folder with all of the
documentation as distributed by USGS, an examples Folder with the input
files that are distributed by USGS, a test Folder containing scripts for
running all of the examples (used to test proper operation), and the
phreeqc.log file. The phreeqc.log file will contain any errors that
occur during a model run. Currently, the phreeqc folder must reside in
the Documents Folder for proper operation of MacPHREEQC. Also, TextEdit
(or another default text editor) is required to open the output files
created by a MacPHREEQC model run, and Terminal is required to operate
the test scripts. If the phreeqc folder is moved or missing a new
(empty) phreeqc folder will be created in Documents.

MacPHREEQC operates from a single window, containing a pop-up menu for
choosing a database, list boxes to choose input and output files,
buttons for choosing folders to display in the list boxes, a button to
create a new output file, fields displaying chosen files and folders,
and a button to run the model. Selecting the Cancel button or closing
the window quits MacPHREEQC. MacPHREEQC also quits upon running a model.
An item in the Help menu provides a detailed explanation of the items in
the MacPHREEQC window.

The current version of MacPHREEQC is 2.0 (3.8.0), the numbers in the
parentheses show the version of the Linux PHREEQC code used to compile
the scripts for MacPHREEQC. MacPHREEQC requires macOS 11.3 (Big Sur) or
later.